# GiftShopSystem
US lab project

#TASK

OOP Project Description

Requirements:
You are to design and build software to manage a gift shop ordering system that caters to other companies and not individuals. Your software will be used and called by User Interface (UI) that someone else will be implementing. You will get to design the UI in assignment 8 but you will not be implementing it.

Your software will track gifts ordered by each company account. The software will be able to manage different company accounts, but the software should only load and manage one account at a time.  

An account has a unique account number that your system will generate using company name and id number when a new account is created. There should be the ability to save the currently loaded account to a text file (one account per text file), re-open it later using the account number, close the currently opened account (it needs to automatically save to file), save the currently opened account data, and delete an account using account number (should delete file with account information) from the system. 

The following company information will be stored by the system: company name, id number (9 characters that can be letters and digits), mailing address, and email address. Company name and id number cannot be changed in the system and are provided by the representative of the company who is requesting for the account to be created. The mailing address and email account can be updated at any time.

To create a new account, user needs to provide all the company data associated with that new account. Account cannot be created without that data. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Once a new account is created or an existing account is re-loaded, user can place an order and add gifts to that order or remove gifts from that order, edit an existing order, edit an existing gift in an order, or cancel order. Gifts in an order and order can only be modified if the order has not been sent yet. For simplicity we will assume that the order has been already sent if current date is after the order delivery date.

Each order will have the following information:  unique order id to be generated by your system, delivery date, name of the person to receive the order, delivery address of the person receiving the order, email of the person receiving the order, order message, and the price of the order.

An order can have one or more gifts. There are three types of gifts that can be ordered: fruit basket, sweets basket, or stuffed animal. Each gift has size (S, M, L) and price.  In addition, fruit basket can be made up of (1) apples and oranges, (2) oranges and pears, or (3) apples and pears. Stuffed animal can be (1) bear (2) cat or (3) dog.

The price of the gift and total order is calculated by the system when the order is added to the account or updated. All order information can be changed except order id which has to be generated when the order is created.

Note: For this system design, each gift type should be designed as a separate Java class.

Your system will calculate the gift price as follow.
1.	There is a flat fee of 19.99 for S gift, 29.99 for M gift, and 39.99 for L gift.
2.	Fruit basket gift has additional fee of 5.99 when it has oranges.
3.	Stuffed animal gift has an additional fee of 3.99

The following requirements need to be satisfied in Assignment 7:
1.	When assigning a value for initial order size or changing existing value, if it’s not S, M, or L, the constructor/method will throw unchecked user defined exception called IllegalOrderSizeException. The exception will extend RuntimeException
2.	When assigning a value for initial order message or changing existing value, if it’s greater than 20 characters the constructor/method will throw builtin Java exception - IllegalArgumentException.
3.	Your system will validate data has valid delivery date. If the date is in the past, code will throw user defined exception called InvalidDeliveryDateException and the order will not be created. This check should be done when creating initial order or changing it.  The exception will be unchecked and extend RuntimeException
4.	If an attempt is made to modify or remove/cancel order that has been already sent, user defined unchecked exception called IllegalModifyOrderException will be called. The exception will extend RuntimeException. Order will not be changed or cancelled.

The system should store the account files in the sub-directory (e.g. “C:\GiftOrderShop\”). You can hardcode that path in the top clas of your system (e.g. ShopOrganizer or ShopManager). Your system will need to generate the appropriate filenames. UI needs ability to drive all functionality through the manager/organizer class. UI is outside the scope of your design but your system needs to have all the functionality it would need.

As you design the system, you need to make sure it is consistent and it only has the interfaces (constructors, attributes and methods) that are needed by the User Interface (UI).

Here is how this system should work in a real scenario:
When the software is first installed, it has no data available. Then the user (Gift Shop employee) creates an account for a new company customer. So first, using the user interface (UI), he/she will select to create a new account. The user interface will prompt for company data and generate a new account with the provided data. Then user can create an order for that particular account, one order at a time and provide the necessary information for the order such as the delivery date, person to be delivered etc. System will generate the order id when the order is created. The user interface takes the provided information and passes to the system you are creating for the object representing that order to be created.

Once an order is created, user can add gifts to the order, one gift at a time. As each gift is added, system will calculate the gift price and total order price. Gifts can be added, changed, or removed as long as the delivery date is in the future. Whole order can also be canceled if the delivery date is in the future.

Currently opened account information can be saved to a file on request by the user and when account is closed the system will automatically save it.

Once the account is created with order(s) in it, the user can display the order information to include each gift price and the total order price in the account as calculated by the system. Note that displaying is the functionality of UI and not your system. Your system just needs to provide the data that could be then displayed by UI.

User can then add a new order to the currently loaded account, create a new account, or load a different existing account.

Next time the user opens the software he/she (Gift Store employee) can load the existing account or create a new account. The user can then add a new order, add or remove a gift from existing order, edit an existing order or edit gift, or cancel an order for the currently opened account. Again, changes and cancelling can only be done if delivery date is in the future. He/she can also decide to delete an existing account which will delete the file.

User of the system is always the gift shop employee. Companies who are the customers (people placing orders) do not have access to the system.


The system you are designing will have the functionality needed to satisfy the above requirements as illustrated by the scenario. You will NOT be implementing the actual user interface (you will still design it though in assignment 8) but you need the classes, attributes, and methods to receive and provide the information that the user interface will need. You can assume that for a complete solution there would be some other class that implements user interface with main() method  and that it will call your classes. Your system will not have main. 

You can write a class with main() in assignment 9 (with test methods for each functionality to test) as your test class or write JUnit test cases instead.  In either case you will need test methods that demonstrate all the main functionality of the system.

Inventory and payment is outside of the scope of this system and should not be included in the design.
